♪
Previously on
Star Trek: Discovery...
We have to get the Progenitors'
power and keep it safe.
This clue is
the most important thing
in the Federation right now.
We are looking for
a very specific manuscript.
It is a handwritten Betazoid
text called
Labyrinths of the Mind.
Try the Eternal Gallery
and Archive.
It's like a bank,
but it protects knowledge.
It changes location
about every 50 years.
This is where it is now.
- The Badlands.
- Been there.
It's as fun as it sounds.
Scans show a Breen Dreadnaught
heading this way
at maximum warp.
We received this.
RUHN:
Your Federation has captured
two fugitives who have
incurred an Erigah.
Be ready to hand them over
upon our imminent arrival.
It goes without saying that
we can't allow the Breen
to become aware of
the Progenitors' technology.
BURNHAM:
Oh, it's you, isn't it?
You are the bloodline,
not the primarch.
- He can't succeed without you.
- Yeah, lucky me.
Direct descendant
of the emperor.
Scion of the Breen Imperium.
The Federation's hiding
something from you.
A power so great
you won't need L'ak
to claim the throne.
And I can get it for you
if you take me with you.
If you wish to avoid war,
she is my price.
Dr. Vellek believed that
since the technology
could be used to create life,
it might also be used
to revive the dead.
- Bit of a stretch.
- BURNHAM: Doesn't matter.
What matters is that she thinks
it'll bring L'ak back.
That's why she's doing this.
BOOK:
We can't give her to them.
There is much to be lost
by keeping her.
This is wrong, Michael.
This isn't how our story ends.
[rhythmic pounding]
[pounding continues]
[whispering]:
I'll fix this.
I promise.
[rhythmic pounding stops]
[speaking Breen]
Without the Scion, some believe
that our claim to the throne
has been eradicated.
In fact, it has grown stronger
than before.
His murder will galvanize
the other factions behind us.
And with the power promised
by his Joined,
we will defeat all
who stand against us.
For the Scion!
ALL:
For the Scion! For the Scion!
For the Scion!
- For the Scion!
- Silence!
[pounds]
Apologies, Primarch.
I can bring him back to you!
The power we seek created life.
In the words
of someone who saw that power,
"It can also renew life."
That is why we need to find it.
That is why I've come.
I ask to be set free, Primarch,
so that I may assist
in the noble quest
to restore the Scion.
Of course, we want nothing more
than to see our Scion returned.
Speak to my soldiers again,
and I will eviscerate you
in front of them.
I don't think your Scion would
look very kindly upon that.
Your value to me does not
extend beyond your ability
to acquire
the Progenitors' technology.
For your sake,
make sure we succeed.
RAYNER:
The Badlands.
Largest plasma storm
in the quadrant.
RHYS:
Hell of a place to hide a clue.
Well, it's kind of beautiful
in a twisted sort of way.
Lieutenant Gallo,
what are scans telling us?
Sensors can't penetrate
through the storm,
but they have a communications
beacon out here.
Looks like it's made of the same
alloy as the library card.
Lieutenant Tilly, transmit a
scan of the card to the beacon.
- Aye, Captain.
- Any updates from Fed HQ?
Nothing yet, but it's safe to
assume Ruhn's on his way here.
Captain,
the Archive's hailing us.
Put them through.
Hello and welcome.
I'm Hy'Rell,
one of the sworn order
who tend to The Eternal Gallery
and Archive and call it home.
I'm Captain Burnham of the
Federation starship Discovery.
Thank you
for the speedy response.
Oh, we saw you coming.
Very exciting. We love visitors.
I'll be explaining how to get
into the Archive in a moment,
but first, there's
a little speech we like to give.
The Eternal Gallery and Archive
is proud to house
the largest known collection
of historical
and cultural artifacts
in the Alpha or Beta Quadrants.
I'm sorry to interrupt,
but we're in a bit of hurry.
Of course.
We can talk while we travel.
Sending coordinates
and velocity adjustments now.
As this is your first visit
into the Archive, please follow
my instructions precisely
and do not deviate.
The Archive is not responsible
for any damage, dismemberment,
or death that may result
in your failure to do so.
Was that meant as a joke?
I guess we'll find out.
Hmm.
Commander Asha, take us in.
Aye, Captain.
HY'RELL:
The Archive has made its home
in the Badlands
for nearly a century.
These uniquely treacherous
environs help protect
our collection.
Archivists, such as myself,
come from a wide array
of backgrounds.
We have devoted our lives
to the preservation
- of galactic knowledge.
- We appreciate the information,
but if you don't mind,
we need to focus. Thank you.
I understand. I'm here
if you have any questions.
- [groans]
- Status report.
Radiation levels are rising.
Shields are down to 70%.
Captain, Hy'Rell's telling us
to cut engines.
- Hy'Rell?
- HY'RELL [staticky]:
It creates a reaction
- with the ionic discharge...
- No. We can't hear you, Hy'Rell!
Cut your engines,
or it could be catastrophic.
What does she expect us
to do without engines?
Coast on our current momentum,
I guess.
Well, she hasn't
led us wrong so far.
Cut the engines.
Aye, Captain.
I can't stabilize
without engines!
Follow the path
as best as you can.
Shields down to 52%.
Pulling from the grid to boost.
Radiation levels still rising.
Shields at 37%.
25!
Hang on, everybody!
[grunts]
[alarm sounding]
[alarm stops]
[panting]
[sighs]
Holy shit.
[laughs softly]
Nice work, everyone.
There it is.
♪
Let's go get that final clue.
[original Star Trek theme
plays]
ASHA:
We'll be within range
in less than a minute, Captain.
Thank you. Lieutenant Gallo?
Shields back to capacity
in less than ten.
- Commander Rayner?
- We took a beating,
but no significant injuries
or damage. We're good.
Captain, we're still seeing
high levels of,
uh, Cherenkov radiation.
It's a by-product
of the plasma activity.
We won't be able to cloak.
Then neither will the Breen.
Lieutenant Christopher,
hail Archivist Hy'Rell.
Aye, Captain.
She's responding.
Ah, it's good to see
you made it all in one piece.
I'll have the Archive lower
their shields
so you can transport in.
Thank you.
I'll be down shortly.
There is just one other matter.
My scans show that there is
a Kwejian aboard Discovery.
Is that correct?
It is.
We have an item
from Kwejian in our possession.
As it is one
of the last remaining artifacts
of that world,
we would appreciate it greatly
if your colleague
could accompany you
and provide some context on it.
I'll ask him to join.
Maintain Yellow Alert
and eyes up.
The Breen are likely
on their way.
Rayner, you have the conn.
You wanted to see me?
[door whooshes shut]
The Archive has something
from Kwejian.
You can come with me
if you want.
Yes.
Good. We should go.
I-I should apologize.
Look, when you all sent Moll
away...
I mean, I get it.
You have a duty, your mission.
I know it was a tough call.
Yeah, not all yours.
Yeah, I get that.
But I supported it.
And I stand by the decision.
Right.
I do care about you.
And what's important to you.
Okay.
Let's go.
♪
And down that aisle, you'll find
our extensive collection
of original Valaric manuscripts.
We can take a detour
if you like.
No thank you.
We're pressed for time.
And speaking of,
I asked my first officer
to report about our recent
run-in with the Breen.
You did receive that,
didn't you?
We sure did,
and we thank you for it.
So if the Breen track us here,
- we'll do everything
we can to...
- Oh, not to worry.
The Breen are contributing
members of the Archive.
We have quite a bit
of experience
dealing with cultures in active
conflict with one another.
We're here to serve everyone,
as long
as everyone follows the rules.
And if they don't?
Why, we send them
to the dungeon, of course.
Just kidding.
we don't actually have
a dungeon here.
It's really more
of an oubliette.
I've set up viewing rooms
for you both.
They're right this way.
The manuscript you requested.
Labyrinths of the Mind.
Has anyone else ever
come looking for this?
Our records show
you are the first.
What can you tell me about
the person who left this here?
Only the basics, I'm afraid.
According to our records,
Dr. Derex was
an accomplished neuroscientist,
originally from Betazed.
Became an Archivist herself
later in life.
Lived out the remainder
of her days here.
I'll leave you to it,
while I show Mr. Booker
to his viewing room.
Thank you.
[door closes]
[sighs softly]
[whirring]
[gasps]
Is your name really "Book"?
Uh, yeah.
How fun to have a Book visit me
in the library for a change.
Hmm.
This box is Tuli wood.
[Book sighs]
We were hoping
you could tell us what it is.
[sighs]
Mm-hmm.
It's a...
...a cutting
from the Kwejian world root.
Wow.
How?
It was given to us long ago,
but was recently moved
to a place of honor.
It is part of our sacred duty
to ensure that cultures that
are lost are never forgotten.
[Book exhales shakily]
Hmm.
Wow.
[voice breaking]:
Thank you.
If you would like
to take that with you,
we consider that your right,
as one
of the last living Kwejian.
[Book sighs]
We would only ask
that you return someday
and tell us what's become of it
so we may have a record.
[laughs softly]
BOOK:
Michael, you won't believe...
Michael?
Hey.
[sighs]
Hello?
Burnham to Discovery.
Do you copy?
Hello?
Shh!
I'm at a really good part.
Book?
[murmuring]
This isn't real,
is it?
Nope.
Your consciousness has been
transported into a mindscape.
A virtual space created
from what your neural activity
indicates
as the most important place
in your life.
I've never been here before.
The mind doesn't lie.
Who are you, exactly?
I'm the program
Dr. Derex created.
So why do you look like you?
My form was generated
from your subconscious,
so you tell me.
So this is a test.
Same as with every other clue
we found.
So I've got
to figure something out, pass,
get the clue and get out, yeah?
Sounds like you know the drill.
Then let's get on with it.
I'm ready.
Are you?
[high-pitching whirring]
She's stable,
at least physically.
Doesn't seem
to be in any distress.
- What happened to her?
- I don't know.
I've worked here for decades.
I've never seen anything
like this.
It looks like some sort
of nucleonic emitter.
It's connected
to her frontal lobe,
and it appears to be running
a program in her mind.
- Okay, can you stop it?
- Not safely.
And transporting her back risks
severing the nucleonic beam.
Disconnecting it
while the program
is still running
could be fatal.
I'm going in after her.
This must be it, right?
The transmitter?
Why isn't it working?
It must not be capable
of multiple connections.
But each clue so far has had
some kind of challenge involved.
We have to assume that... that
that's what this program is.
We can't just wait around
and hope she passes the test.
If the clue's here,
we have to find it ourselves.
Hy'Rell,
I need everything you've got
on this neuroscientist.
Any biographical data,
any books she's accessed.
I'll be back shortly.
[door opens, closes]
AVATAR BOOK: Okay,
the clue's in here somewhere.
Find it, and you'll know
where it is in the real world.
BURNHAM:
Find the clue?
That's the test?
No, the clue is the objective.
The test to find it, you'll have
to figure out on your own.
I don't have time for games.
The scientists who hid
the Progenitors' technology--
including Dr. Derex--
wanted it found and protected.
That's what I'm here to do.
Good.
I hope you succeed.
Let me know if I can help.
Can you narrow down
where to look?
I'm not allowed to give hints.
What about "yes"
or "no" questions--
can you answer those?
Depending on the question. Yes.
Oh, my brain
should've picked Tilly.
[sighs]
Derex was a neuroscientist.
So what kind of test
would she have created?
There is too much here
to search randomly.
She wants us to succeed? Yes?
- Yes.
- Then she would have
created a...
A way to narrow the scope
of the search.
I assume
this is here for a reason?
Everything's here for a reason.
So, the clue wouldn't be
in Fiction or Art.
Neuroscience is too easy.
But if it were hidden on a shelf
or in something
that looked like a book.
History.
Is that it?
The History section?
What's your logic?
They started the clue trail
during the Dominion War.
Jinaal said they wanted it found
during a time of peace.
He believed peace was possible.
The only way
progress like that happens
is by learning from the past.
Those who learn history
aren't doomed to repeat it.
So we'll go through all
the books on the Dominion War,
go from there.
Where's the History section?
Have you thought about
what might happen if you fail?
- No.
- The mindscape shuts down,
and your brain functions
will cease.
Security precaution.
Sorry.
I shouldn't be surprised.
Jinaal would've let
an itronok eat us.
It is not too late to leave.
I can release you now.
Last chance.
I'm gonna finish this mission,
and you are going to help.
Lead the way. Let's go.
[high-pitched whirring]
I found everything
you asked for.
Biographical data and a list
of all materials accessed
by Dr. Derex while in residence.
It'd be faster
to list what she didn't access.
There is another matter,
as well.
A Breen ship has arrived
at our beacon.
They are requesting access
to our Archive.
You can't let them in, not now.
We cannot be perceived
as taking sides,
but I will handle this
appropriately.
Discovery,
Commander Rhys, Red Alert.
The Breen are on their way.
[speaking Breen]
Hello. I'm Hy'Rell, one
of the sworn order who tend...
We tracked a Starfleet
jump signature to this location.
They seek an item
which belongs to me.
As a matter of policy,
when it comes to conflicts
between our visitors,
the Archive does not...
I hope, for your sake, that it
remains in your possession.
Sir, in light of the fact
that we have several priceless
Breen artifacts in our Archive,
I'll do you the courtesy
to suggest
that you rephrase your request.
Give it to me!
Or the Archive and its contents
will be made ash.
[others speaking Breen]
Your request is denied,
and all Breen privileges are
suspended until further notice.
May you gain knowledge
elsewhere.
L'ak told me
the Breen had great reverence
for their culture and history.
Not you, though, hmm?
You say
what is hidden down there
will reveal the location of the
Progenitors' technology. How?
You have to combine it with the
other clues that Discovery has.
You made no mention
of other clues.
Discovery is here
already somewhere.
You can easily overpower them.
Find what's in the Archive,
take what they've got.
We'll have everything we need.
- [grunts]
- [groans]
Is there...
- anything else?
- [groaning]
Do not test my patience again.
[Moll groans]
[gasping]
[Burnham sighs]
Are the lights getting dimmer,
or are we...
we've just been at this
too long?
Hmm?
Never mind.
[sighs heavily]
There's nothing in the "Dominion
War" section, or any other wars.
Nothing in Betazed history,
Trill history,
or the Mirror universe.
I'm going the wrong way,
aren't I?
Yes.
Damn it.
- Why didn't you tell me?!
- You didn't ask.
I told you everything in here
was for a reason.
You assumed
the reason was history.
[groans]
Try being proactive next time.
It's your mindscape.
I can help you,
- but I can't solve it for you.
- Fine.
Why is this library
the most important place to me?
Why did my subconscious
pick this place
for the test?
It's the mission.
Isn't it?
It's because
the mission is here.
And when I'm on a mission,
that's my priority.
That's why
this place matters so much.
Speaking proactively,
you may be onto something.
Good.
Great.
So?
So.
BURNHAM:
Labyrinths of the Mind.
This mission is
in a labyrinth of books.
Labyrinth. Labyrinth.
Oh, it's a maze.
BOOK:
Mm.
BURNHAM:
Finishing the mission means
getting out,
and getting out is how
I find the clue.
I am supposed
to find my way out,
back to the reading room
where it all started, right?
Unless you'd rather die in here.
Hmm.
Well, there are mathematical
methods for solving mazes.
Ah.
Trémaux's algorithm.
I just need
to find a way to mark my path,
to eliminate routes.
Thank you.
For what it's worth,
I prefer this version of you
that is helpful.
Tilly would've been
just as frustrating.
For what it's worth.
Hmm.
Nothing in there leads
to the clue.
How about her reading list?
A Comprehensive Guide
to Talaxian Hair Styles.
Hupyrian Folk Tales.
Euclidean Geometry.
I don't know. Seems like she
just loved learning new things.
Any suggestions?
[Klaxon alarm sounding]
Excuse me.
Unfortunately, our conversation
with the Breen did not go well.
We have raised our shields,
which means
transport back
to your ship will be impossible
for the time being.
My apologies.
I must go prepare our defenses.
I'll help you.
Let me know if you need me.
Damn it.
Discovery, what's your status?
Sir, we've detected the Breen
on approach
through the plasma storm.
- RAYNER: How far out?
- TILLY: The plasma
is blinding our sensors
so we're relying
upon gravimetric calculations.
Lieutenant Naya?
I'm guessing
we have two minutes.
RAYNER: Discovery is no match
for that ship's firepower.
Find a way to conceal yourselves
and stand by for further orders.
Rayner out.
We can't cloak.
We'll have to use natural cover.
Commander Asha,
take us out of the oasis,
- back into the plasma storm.
- Sir?
If it blinds our sensors,
it'll blind theirs, too.
Lieutenant Naya, monitor weather
patterns in the plasma storm,
send the data to Asha's station,
keep us as safe as you can.
- Aye, Commander.
- Just stating the obvious here,
but we can only withstand
that storm for so long.
I know.
[sighs heavily]
We just need long enough.
[whooshing]
[panting]
[whooshing continues]
Yes.
[panting]
[gasps]
Ah.
That's where we came in.
Gotcha.
- What?
- [door squeaks shut]
What the hell?!
Thought you had it, hmm?
Why are you making this
so hard?
I'm doing
what the scientists wanted.
I'm-I'm trying to...
They didn't ask for you.
What?!
They wanted the technology
in the right hands, yes.
They wanted it protected... yes.
But who's to say
you're one of the good guys?
How could they possibly know
that you, Michael Burnham,
out of anyone alive,
could be trusted with it?
There's a test here.
You haven't passed it yet.
The lights are going out.
I'm running out of time,
aren't I?
Yes.
You are.
- [rapid chirping]
- Her cortisol levels are rising.
Whatever she's experiencing,
she's stressed, scared.
[rumbling]
RHYS:
Commander Rayner, do you copy?
Yeah. What's going on?
RHYS: We're detecting some
kind of energy connection
between the dreadnaught
and the Archive's shields.
I've never seen anything
like it.
It seems to be focusing
on one particular spot.
Shit. They're using
shield-tunneling technology
to get their troops inside.
Discovery, figure out
how that tech works
and find a way to slow it down.
- Aye, Commander.
- Booker, I need you back here
right now.
Breen are coming in.
- BOOK: On my way.
- [rumbling]
I'm gonna need all the time
you and Book can give me.
You got it.
[rumbling]
BURNHAM:
What is the test?
Is it why
this mission is so important?
Every mission is important.
[sighs]
So what is it?
Labyrinths of the Mind.
Is it me?
It's my mind.
Right?
That's why
my subconscious picked you.
Because we talked earlier.
And...
And what?
We didn't fix it.
That's why I picked you.
Because I want to fix it,
but I don't know how.
He looked at me like that, too.
Flat.
'Cause he thinks the job is
all that matters to me.
And so, is that what you want?
Do you want me to admit that?
That the job is everything?
Is that how I get the clue?
Or maybe, I should go
even more psychobabble here
and admit that if I don't
complete this mission,
then I don't know who I am.
Maybe I think that, uh...
...nobody will love me, or...
or care about me
if I'm a failure.
And maybe that's the reason
why I lost you.
Him.
Is that right?
Some of those things
may be true,
but they are not the answer.
[whooshing]
Wait. So,
I succeed, I fix things.
What's wrong with that?
What's wrong
with-with having a purpose?
You don't have to go out
every day and prove yourself,
why you matter.
You don't have to prove
that you deserve this uniform,
this rank, that...
that you can be counted on,
that you won't quit,
that you won't fail again.
Again?
Screw you.
I'll find my own way out.
RHYS:
Engineering,
how much longer
till we can help the Archive?
We are working on it, Commander.
So how the hell do we disrupt
a shield-tunneling technology
we've never encountered before
from a species
we know almost nothing about?
And don't forget
we have to do it
without the Breen knowing
we're here.
How hard could that be?
ADIRA:
Hey, look at this.
Their tunnel has
a periodic fluctuation.
It's, uh, 8.4 times per second.
Yeah. They're-they're using
harmonic resonance...
BOTH:
To match the Archive's
shield frequency.
I love when you two do that.
STAMETS:
It's an automated process, but
if we could make
the Breen's system think
that the frequency's changed,
it would remodulate,
closing the tunnel
so none of the soldiers
could get inside.
The problem is, the Breen use
base-duodeca coding,
which is, like,
really hard to hack.
Remember when I was talking
about all the odd jobs
that I used to have?
- Uh, yes?
- [Stamets gasps]
There was a stint where I fixed
comms relays near Hysperia.
Hysperians really know
how to party, by the way,
but it's another story.
Point is,
we'd do remote repairs using
concentrated positron beams,
which can be set to pulse
at pretty much any frequency.
We-we could direct
a positron beam
right to where the tunnel meets
the Archive's shields,
and then, if we set the beam
to a different frequency...
That's it. Do it again.
BOTH:
The tunnel would
automatically close!
ADIRA:
Yeah, but eventually,
they're gonna
realize the error
and-and correct it.
Yes, but, hopefully, by then,
our team's already out.
- Great idea.
- I live to serve.
Commander, we have a solution,
but it'll take a few minutes.
RAYNER:
We'll do our best
to survive that long.
[panting]
They'll come
into this intersection here,
they'll fan out and look for us,
I'm guessing in groups of four.
Okay, I see a few places
where we can hit them from,
depending
on their arrival position.
No. There.
We'll be hidden by shelving,
but we'll have clear
sight lines
wherever they come in.
You think like a hunter.
Had to, to survive the Breen.
STAMETS: We're closing
the tunnel now, Commander,
but some
of the Breen got through.
RAYNER:
We'll be ready.
[speaking Breen]
Whatever it is
you're talking about,
it isn't your only problem.
Someone just took out one
of your troops.
I told you Discovery was here.
[speaking Breen]
[thudding]
[weapon firing]
[static]
RAYNER:
There's more of that down here,
you gelatinous assholes!
[weapons firing]
Send me down there.
I've beaten Starfleet
in close quarters.
Do you think I'm a fool?
I would never miss the chance
to bring L'ak back.
And you don't have
to keep losing soldiers.
We will sacrifice
as many as it takes.
Redirect all forces
in the facility
to that sector immediately.
[responds in Breen]
He doesn't give a shit
about L'ak.
Or any of you.
You know that, right?
Hang on. Hang on. Hang on.
Book's been shot.
Book. Hold on.
Let me take a look.
BOOK:
Oh, easy.
- It's not that bad.
- Abdominal cavity.
I can't treat this here.
We need to get you to sickbay.
What's the captain's status?
No change. She's still in it.
Discovery, report.
RHYS:
We disrupted the tunnel,
but they'll have it fixed soon.
And we can't take
this plasma storm much longer.
What do you want us
to do, Commander?
Five more minutes.
If the captain's not conscious
by then, we evacuate.
Contact the Archive,
have them ready to lower shields
just long enough
for us to beam out.
Wait. What about the clue?
Clue won't matter
if we're all dead.
No, no, no, no, we can't.
RAYNER:
Book, listen,
I know transporting means
we could lose her...
...but if we stay,
we most definitely will.
I'm sorry.
I needed a minute.
Your time is almost up.
I know.
I've tried everything.
There's nothing else I can do.
I don't want to die in here.
Are you afraid of death?
Not really.
I'm afraid a lot.
But not of death.
I'm surprised to hear that.
The great Michael Burnham,
afraid?
More than I'd like to admit.
Of failing.
Not being enough.
A good enough captain...
friend,
partner.
Sometimes...
...it drives me, that fear.
And I hate that.
[sighs]
I hate it so much.
It makes me feel...
Makes me feel small.
And weak.
[inhales sharply]
Ashamed.
Sounds hard to live like that.
[sniffles]
Well, I've been working on it.
But it's always there.
It actually feels good
to say it out loud,
even if you're not really Book.
I should've told him that.
Why I pulled back.
But I was afraid
I'd failed him.
Or me.
And so it was easier to just...
[sighs]
Well, anyhow.
Can you at least tell me
what the test was?
Before the lights go out.
No need.
You've passed.
[lights clacking on]
How?
If you're going to be
the one to protect
what the Progenitors
left behind,
you'll need to know yourself.
Be able to be honest
with yourself.
Especially with the things
that are hard to look at.
Fear, guilt.
The things you may
be vulnerable to.
Most can't admit those things
to themselves.
That you can is the only way
you can be trusted
to do the right thing
with so much power.
[exhales]
Congratulations,
Michael Burnham.
Thank you.
That's one hell of a test.
Damn.
[sniffles]
You don't mess around, do you?
There's a crystal
in Viewing Room 7.
Once you wake up,
just go in, get it
and break it open.
The clue's hidden inside.
Okay.
I guess I should
head back, then.
There's one more thing
you need to know first.
About something
inside your final destination.
The way to get through it.
Book.
Hey.
- Michael.
- CULBER: Captain.
- Book, you're hurt.
[panting]:
What happened to you?
What happened?
I'll be okay.
BURNHAM:
What's our status?
We need to evacuate now.
Breen are here, more are coming.
I know where the final clue is.
We need to get there first.
Let's move.
♪
Commander Rhys, are you ready?
RHYS: On your mark. Archive's
standing by to lower shields,
but the Breen reinforcements
are almost there.
RAYNER:
How much time do we have?
RHYS:
30 seconds, if you're lucky.
BURNHAM:
It's enough.
[grunts]
Commander, now! Energize!
Are Book and Culber in sickbay?
Aye, Captain.
[grunts]
What's the status
of the Archive?
Hy'Rell said several
archivists were injured,
- but none critically.
- RAYNER: Yet.
With reinforcements beaming in,
- it won't last long.
- RHYS: Figured they'd need help.
I sent Gallo to work
on our shield emitters.
Good idea. Commander Jemison,
have Gallo's team route all the
available power to your station.
Commander Asha, get ready
to take us out into the open
- and draw the Breen
away from the Archive.
- BOTH: Aye, Captain.
All right, Asha.
Let's fly.
Primarch, we have
Discovery on scans.
They're hailing us.
Put them through.
Primarch Ruhn,
your business is with us,
not with the Archive.
They no longer have
the item you desire.
So you do?
And if you fire on us,
you'll destroy the clue.
If you do not send me
the entire set of clues
immediately,
I will destroy the Archive.
NAYA:
Captain, the dreadnaught's
charging some sort
of energy weapon.
Primarch, wait!
There are a thousand innocent
lives in that Archive.
Take this as your final warning.
[speaks Breen]
BRYCE: Captain, Hy'Rell's
reporting significant injuries.
RUHN:
Give me the clues,
or more blood will be
on your hands.
First I'll need your assurance
that the Archive
and everyone in it
will not be harmed any further.
RAYNER:
Captain?
RUHN: You are in
no position to bargain.
I am if you want the clues.
Now swear on it!
A tergun to spare the Archive
and all its inhabitants.
A tergun is a sacred Breen oath.
You expect me to swear one
with a human?
That is exactly what I expect.
I need a moment to consider.
Tilly, get the rest
of the clues up here.
We need to finish the map
so we can find
where the tech is hidden.
On it.
Why would she do this?
The Federation's compassion has
always been its weakness.
To save the few,
they will risk the many.
It could be a trick, Primarch.
She would not risk that.
Not after seeing
what our weapons can do.
Reopen communications.
They're ready, Captain.
BURNHAM:
Put them through.
RUHN:
I will grant you tergun.
I will spare the Archive
and all those inside.
Deviate from our agreement,
and they will die
excruciating deaths.
Stand by for transport.
Discovery out.
- Tilly!
- I'm here, I'm here.
Last clue.
Here we go.
[zapping]
TILLY:
That's it.
The coordinates
to the Progenitors' technology.
Get a scan of that map
to Stamets.
- Have him stand by to jump.
- TILLY: Aye, Captain.
Prepare to vent main shuttle bay
and all plasma
from both nacelles.
You heard your captain,
get to it.
CREW:
Aye, Commander.
Primarch,
we have received
an item from Discovery
via transport.
Materialize it.
Is the object authentic?
It is.
Good.
Lock onto Discovery,
prepare to fire.
What? No!
You'd be starting a war
with the Federation.
All the Breen factions
will be drawn in.
They could turn against us.
RUHN:
"Us"?
So you're a Breen now?
I am the wife of the Scion.
The dead Scion.
[speaking Breen]
- They're locking onto us.
- Evasive maneuvers.
Everybody hold tight.
Commander Stamets,
are you ready?
STAMETS:
Standing by, Captain.
We're going to vent
and jump simultaneously.
Black Alert.
[alert sounding]
Incoming.
Damage report.
I'm losing lateral thrusters!
Damage is reported
on Decks 5, 14 and 18.
- They're firing again.
- Fire back and hold steady!
Structural integrity
is weakening.
Shields down to 30%.
- Captain?
- Keep holding.
- [grunts]
- JEMISON:
Shields are collapsing!
On my mark.
Now!
[grunting]
Is everybody all right?
Aye, Captain.
- Aye, Captain.
BURNHAM:
Commander Asha, where are we?
- 22 light-years off target.
- Commander Stamets?
STAMETS:
I'm not sure what happened.
The spore drive malfunctioned.
The sensors say it was damaged
by the Breen assault.
We cannot jump again
until it is fixed.
Warp drive is also damaged,
Captain.
Looking into how bad.
Keep me posted.
Any casualties?
A few minor injuries, that's it.
Good.
Lieutenant Tilly,
considering maximum warp,
how long will it take
the Breen ship
to get to the map coordinates?
Six hours, give or take.
Commander Rayner, I want all
available personnel on repairs.
They have five hours,
and then we need to go.
You got it.
Smart move, by the way, Captain.
Now Ruhn thinks we're dead.
Advantage us.
Someone once told me
never turn my back on a Breen.
They still might beat us
to the coordinates.
No, I learned something
in the mindscape.
Something we'll need to know
when we get there.
And I can't imagine
Ruhn figuring it out.
What about Moll?
Primarch, we have confirmed
debris
and traces of warp plasma.
Discovery has been destroyed.
Good.
Prepare to fire on the Archive.
You swore a tergun.
Don't make this
any worse for your crew
than you already have.
Set a course
for the map coordinates.
The goal is L'ak.
The goal is whatever
I say it is.
Recharge the weapons.
Take her to The Chamber.
But, Primarch, she...
Take her!
Yes, Primarch.
No, damn it, wait!
If you destroy the Archive,
it won't just be
the Federation coming after you.
It'll be other Breen, too.
As revenge for your dishonor.
With the Progenitors' power,
we will not worry.
But you don't have it yet.
Do you?
L'ak will never support
your succession
if you kill me.
I don't need L'ak anymore.
Or you.
And there it is.
You don't give a damn
about your Scion,
your oaths,
or the lives of your soldiers.
Would L'ak do this?
Would your Scion be
this selfish?
He left.
For a human.
He loves me.
Yes.
But he left because of you.
Primarch, don't.
How dare you!
[grunting]
[Breen clamoring]
I am the wife of L'ak.
Scion
and true ruler of the Imperium.
We will get him back.
Long will he reign.
Long will
he reign.
Long will he reign.
Captioning sponsored by
CBS
Captioned by
Media Access Group at WGBH
access.wgbh.org